---
aliases: 
tags:
  - ai
date: 2024-10-04T12:57:23+00:00
lastmod: 2024-10-04T16:17:41+00:00
title: The Brainmade Mark
---
Generative models (colloquially: AI) are here and they will never leave again. The quality of generated material, especially text, has improved enough that has become hard to tell if it was (partially) generated by AI.

Since no rule exists mandating an indication what content is AI-generated, we are faced with choosing between not caring if something was artificially generated, assuming everything is AI-generated, or becoming experts at differentiating between AI and human made content, a battle which AI will likely win.

Personally when I read an article and I discover halfway through that I am reading (mostly) AI content I cannot help but feel a sense of disappointment or dishonesty. I assume I am reading someones opinion, their expertise, or their experience.

For me it's not that AI is not useful - it obviously is - but it is my assumption of experiencing content made and endorsed by a real human. The content generated using this impressive technology has entered public discourse and is rapidly taking it over. 

Currently (2024) it's still doable to confidently identify many posts as being AI-generated, but the opposite is not true. I have no way of knowing that a piece of information is actual human-made content or that the generative model used is just one that has become good enough to fool me.

YouTuber [Tris Oaten at NoBoilerplate](https://www.youtube.com/@NoBoilerplate) created a video  [The "BrainMade" mark](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kul0z3OTmVM) where he explains his initiative of including a logo, [BrainMade](https://brainmade.org/) - indicating what you are looking at is content of a real human being. I like this - it is an explicit statement that what you are looking at is created by an actual human being.

I use AI here and there - for example, finding a few ways to phrase something differently. But everything on this site is me, my opinions, my experience. My goal is to have a place to show who I am, and AI is (and will not be) a part of that.